<h1>Be LIBERATED!</h1>

<h2>In traditional client-server development...</h2>

Traditional web-based client-server application development has been
accomplished in two separate pieces: the frontend portion which runs on the
client machine has been written in HTML and JavaScript; and the backend
portion which runs on the server machine has been written in PHP, ASP.net, or
some other "server-side" language which typically interfaces to a
database. The skill sets required for these two pieces are different, meaning
that sometimes the frontend and backend are developed and tested completely
independently, based purely on an interface specification. More recently,
server-side JavaScript has begun to gain momentum, allowing for more overlap
of skill set, but still requiring separate development and testing of the
frontend and backend pieces.

<h2>Be LIBERATED from those hassles!</h2>

LIBERATED is a new methodology for web-based client-server application
development, in which a simulated server is built into the browser environment
to run the backend code. This allows the frontend code to issue requests to
the backend in either a synchronous or asynchronous fashion, step, using a
debugger, directly from frontend code into backend code, and to completely
test both the frontend and backend portions. That exact same backend code, now
fully tested in the simulated environment, is then moved, unaltered, to a real
server. Since the application-specific code has been fully tested in the
simulated environment and moves unchanged to the server, it is unlikely that
bugs will be encountered at the server that did not exist in the simulated
environment.
